# Bioinformatic pipeline that preprocess, assembly and annotate genomic data of R. asembonensis bacteria

In recent decades, the emergence of infectious bacterias have become major threats to public health. This is the case of the bacteria specie Rickettsia asembonensis -identified in Asembo, Kenya- which, in recent years, have been detected in fleas (Ctenocephalides felis and Ctenocephalides canis), in previously unreported regions and in nonspecific cases of acute febrile syndromes. This emerging pathogen -as well as many others- remains relatively unknown. Therefore, it becomes a substantial need not to underestimate it and expand its study not only epidemiologically, but also related to its molecular biology. Currently, the scientific effort to increase the efficiency of obtaining the molecular biology of species has generated the appearance of next-generation sequencing technologies. In that sense, the large amount of genomic data must be manipulated with bioinformatic techniques. The latter have allowed a better understanding and use of the data generated by sequencing technologies. Being that, recently, the application of protocols and pipelines has generated favorable results. Consequently, the application of bioinformatic techniques in order to obtain the genomic information of the R. asembonensis bacteria represents an opportunity to contribute to the scientific knowledge of this microorganism. Therefore, the main objective of this work is the assembly and annotation of the genome of the R. asembonensis bacteria through a bioinformatic pipeline, which will make use of sequenced data of C. felis flea positive for R. asembonensis, from samples collected in a study carried out in the city of Iquitos, Peru. This work will also generate a precedent and methodological reference for other species of interest with the same problem.

## Thesis
Information about the development of the pipeline [here](https://tesis.pucp.edu.pe/repositorio/handle/20.500.12404/22146)
